# Welcome to the team!

This is the project site for the Desired State Configuration Scalable Management (DSCSM) tool. DSCSM allows administrators to reduce the complexity of managing desired states across large and complex environments. With DSCSM, customers can manage the state of every server and computer in their environment(s) from a single place. Additionally, by using the DSCSM repository, customers can leverage modern DevOps technologies to bring their people and processes together to develop, maintain, and deliver standardized configurations across their environments.

## DSCSM Folder Structure

---

### NodeData

The NodeData folder stores Powershell Data files that represent the end nodes that you are targetting. Each NodeData .psd1 file should contain the following:

* NodeName - The Active Directory Computer Name of the end node. This is used by DSC to push the configuration MOF to that machine.
* LocalConfigurationManager Hashtable - Define the Local Configuration Manager settings for your end node(s).
* AppliedConfigurations Array - Define which configurations you want to apply to your end node(s).
* Parameter Hashtables - Use hashtables with Parameter values for each configuration you're applying.

### Configurations

Standardized configuration scripts should be located in the Configurations folder. Follow these guidlines for your configurations:

* Each configuration should be named the exact same as the file name.
* Use parameters for settings that allow for variance.

### MOFs

Once you run the Start-DscBuild function, the configurations for each defined node will be compiled and executed to generate MOFs for DSC settings and Meta.MOFs for LCM settings. Target this folder with Start-DSCConfiguration to push the compiled/generated configurations to every node.

### Artifacts

Once you run the Start-DscBuild funtion, the configurations for each defined node will be compiled into their own individual configuration scripts which will be exported into the artifacts folder for reference.

### Resources

The resources folder is used to store Powershell Modules, DSC Resource Modules, helper functions, etc that are relevent to your organization.

Build/Release functions for DSCSM are also stored in the resources folder.

### Tests

The Tests folder is where unit/integration tests are stored and executed from.

### Reports

DSC Compliance reports are stored in the Reports folder, along with other reporting features relevenet to your organization. For example, STIG checklists that are generated by the DSCSM functions will be stored here as well.

### Archive

All artifacts produced by DSCSM will be packaged, compressed, and stored in the Archive folder for future reference.

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/)
or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions
or comments.

## Contributing

We welcome all contributions to the development of DSCSM.
There are several different ways you can help.
You can add new configurations, create automated tests, create/update documentation, fix existing bugs/issues, or submit new ones.
See our [contributing guide](README.CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info on how to become a contributor.

### Contributors

A special thanks goes out to all those who have supported and contributed to the success of this project!

* [@JakeDean3631](https://github.com/JakeDean3631)
* [@kenjohnson03](https://github.com/kenjohnson03)